README.md, before:

# WFMC - Web File Manager C implementation
This repository is based on very old commit (Aug 2021) of original WFM repository.

WFM is a lightweight web based file management application. It allows to perform
regular file and folder operations such as upload, download, rename, delete files
and organize directory tree structure using standard web browser. Text, markup and
markdown files can be edited directly in the browser. 

An integrated GIT client can track and auto commit all file change operations
into a GIT repository.

This app was initially used as a web front end for an FTP server. However since you
can edit html and markdown documents over the web and there is a GIT backed
version control, you can think and use WFM as a small Content Management System (CMS).

WFM can also be used as a personal cloud, for taking notes, managing files, bookmarks
or as a front end of a NAS servers.

This program is written using portable C code and compiles natively
for many flavors of Unix. It runs as a cgi-bin application on most httpd servers
and does not require PHP, Perl, Python or any other interpreted language. It's a single
binary application with all icons embedded inside. It's very small and lightning fast.
I runs on resource constrained embedded computers or legacy systems. For compatibility
with older browsers it outputs certified HTML 4.01. JavaScript is completely optional
and only used for non-essential luxuries. Tested using [BrowserStack](http://www.browserstack.com/).

![alt text](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tenox7/wfm/master/screenshot.png "WFM Screenshot")

## History
WFM begun its life around 1994 as a Perl CGI script for CERN httpd
server to allow uploading and managing customer logs by field support
engineers over the web and as a front end to FTP servers. Later rewritten in
C language, when CGIC library and Apache httpd were released. Up to 2015 WFM
has been a closed source commercial application, used for lighweight document
management and supported by a few companies. WFM is now released as open source.


## Installation
WFM binary is self-contained including all icons/images. You only need
to copy the compiled wfm binary (with any name) to your cgi execution
directory, usually cgi-bin. Include a config file of the same name as the
binary file plus .cfg extension. Example:

    /home/user/web/cgi-bin
      wfm
      wfm.cfg

Edit the .cfg file according to your needs.

Point your browser to http://x.x.x.x/cgi-bin/wfm and you are done.

## Configuration
This application was designed with multiple instances in mind. An instance
is made by copying or linking WFM binary with a different name. In a more
advanced configuration different instances can suexec to different users.

In basic form each instance reads it's configuration file of 
instance name + .cfg extension from the current working directory.
For example if you decide to use "ftpadmin" as name of the executable
(or link) it will read file named "ftpadmin.cfg" for the configuration.
Below is a simple, self-explanatory configuration file example:

    # tagline or application name
    tagline=Snake Oil File Exchange

    # home directory, typically local directory on the server or SMB/NFS mount
    directory=/home/user/wfmdata

    # recursively calculate directory sizes - only enable if you have
    # fast disk (eg. SSD), large cache or a small directory tree structure
    #recursive-du=true

    # large file set makes the move dialog display only a reduced directory tree
    # instead of a complete tree from the whole repository
    #large-file-set=true

    # favicon / application icon, must be one of the embedded/compiled icon files
    # by default wfmicon.gif
    #favicon=home.gif

    # When clicking on txt file - edit instead of download by default
    #txt-default-edit=true

    # Edit any file as it was txt
    #edit-any-file=false

    # optional browser url prefix - aka "external link" - if defined, file
    # names will be glued to it giving option to be opened directly with the
    # external link button without going through cgi routines
    #browser-url=http://x.x.x.x/files/
    #browser-url=ftp://x.x.x.x/pub/

    # access lists 
    # acl format is access-type=level:check, one per line
    # type is either access-ip, access-md5pw or access-htauth
    # level is ro|rw
    # check is ip address, username or * for any ip or user
    # md5 format is username:md5hashof(username:password) 
    # to generate this use: echo -n "foo:bar" | md5
    # htauth is for http basic/digest auth, use username or * for any user
    # htauth requires externally (httpd) defined auth and require directive
    access-ip=ro:*
    access-ip=rw:127.0.0.1
    # guest / guest
    access-md5pw=ro:guest:d3c3b5cb55d3c6d0c6122eedccc3dcf3
    # admin / password
    access-md5pw=rw:admin:73eff6386ce2091b5ca702fc007e1da9
    access-htauth=ro:*
    access-htauth=rw:admin

If you use mixed readonly and readwrite access then then in order to authenticate
click on the lock sign on right side of the top status bar.

For enterprise users LDAP/Active Directory is supported. 
Refer to [mod_authnz_ldap](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/mod/mod_authnz_ldap.html) 
with basic / digest authentication. To allow a specific LDAP group or DN use
[Require ldap-group](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/mod/mod_authnz_ldap.html#reqgroup) 
or [Require ldap-dn](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/mod/mod_authnz_ldap.html#reqdn) 
and `access-htauth=:rw:*` in wfm.cfg.

## Copyrights and Credits
Copyright (c) 1994-2018 by Antoni Sawicki  
Copyright (c) 2018-2019 by Google LLC  
Copyright (c) 1996-2011 by Thomas Boutell and Boutell.Com, Inc.  
Copyright (c) 2002 by Aladdin Enterprises  
Copyright (c) 1999-2009 by Paul Johnston  
Copyright (c) 2010 by Yusuke Kamiyamane  
WFM implemented by [Antoni Sawicki](http://www.tenox.net/)  
[CGIC Library](https://www.boutell.com/cgic/) by Thomas Boutell  
Server Side RFC 1321 implementation by [L. Peter Deutsch](https://sourceforge.net/projects/libmd5-rfc/files/)  
Client Side RFC 1321 implementation by [Paul Johnston](http://pajhome.org.uk/crypt/md5/index.html)  
Icons by [Yusuke Kamiyamane](http://p.yusukekamiyamane.com/)  
URL Encoding routines by Fred Bulback  
Web browser testing by [BrowserStack](http://www.browserstack.com/)

Commit message:

Redirect using <meta http-equiv="Refresh"...

README.md, after:

# WFMC - Web File Manager C implementation
This repository is based on very old commit (Aug 2021) of original WFM repository.

WFM is a lightweight web based file management application. It allows to perform
regular file and folder operations such as upload, download, rename, delete files
and organize directory tree structure using standard web browser. Text, markup and
markdown files can be edited directly in the browser. 

An integrated GIT client can track and auto commit all file change operations
into a GIT repository.

This app was initially used as a web front end for an FTP server. However since you
can edit html and markdown documents over the web and there is a GIT backed
version control, you can think and use WFM as a small Content Management System (CMS).

WFM can also be used as a personal cloud, for taking notes, managing files, bookmarks
or as a front end of a NAS servers.

This program is written using portable C code and compiles natively
for many flavors of Unix. It runs as a cgi-bin application on most httpd servers
and does not require PHP, Perl, Python or any other interpreted language. It's a single
binary application with all icons embedded inside. It's very small and lightning fast.
I runs on resource constrained embedded computers or legacy systems. For compatibility
with older browsers it outputs certified HTML 4.01. JavaScript is completely optional
and only used for non-essential luxuries. Tested using [BrowserStack](http://www.browserstack.com/).

![alt text](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tenox7/wfm/master/screenshot.png "WFM Screenshot")

## History
WFM begun its life around 1994 as a Perl CGI script for CERN httpd
server to allow uploading and managing customer logs by field support
engineers over the web and as a front end to FTP servers. Later rewritten in
C language, when CGIC library and Apache httpd were released. Up to 2015 WFM
has been a closed source commercial application, used for lighweight document
management and supported by a few companies. WFM is now released as open source.


## Installation
WFM binary is self-contained including all icons/images. You only need
to copy the compiled wfm binary (with any name) to your cgi execution
directory, usually cgi-bin. Include a config file of the same name as the
binary file plus .cfg extension. Example:

    /home/user/web/cgi-bin
      wfm
      wfm.cfg

Edit the .cfg file according to your needs.

Point your browser to http://x.x.x.x/cgi-bin/wfm and you are done.

## Configuration
This application was designed with multiple instances in mind. An instance
is made by copying or linking WFM binary with a different name. In a more
advanced configuration different instances can suexec to different users.

In basic form each instance reads it's configuration file of 
instance name + .cfg extension from the current working directory.
For example if you decide to use "ftpadmin" as name of the executable
(or link) it will read file named "ftpadmin.cfg" for the configuration.
Below is a simple, self-explanatory configuration file example:

    # tagline or application name
    tagline=Snake Oil File Exchange

    # home directory, typically local directory on the server or SMB/NFS mount
    directory=/home/user/wfmdata

    # recursively calculate directory sizes - only enable if you have
    # fast disk (eg. SSD), large cache or a small directory tree structure
    #recursive-du=true

    # large file set makes the move dialog display only a reduced directory tree
    # instead of a complete tree from the whole repository
    #large-file-set=true

    # redirect using use meta tag with http-equiv="Refresh"
    # enable this option if HTTP redirects doesn't work
    #redirect-with-meta=true

    # favicon / application icon, must be one of the embedded/compiled icon files
    # by default wfmicon.gif
    #favicon=home.gif

    # When clicking on txt file - edit instead of download by default
    #txt-default-edit=true

    # Edit any file as it was txt
    #edit-any-file=false

    # optional browser url prefix - aka "external link" - if defined, file
    # names will be glued to it giving option to be opened directly with the
    # external link button without going through cgi routines
    #browser-url=http://x.x.x.x/files/
    #browser-url=ftp://x.x.x.x/pub/

    # access lists 
    # acl format is access-type=level:check, one per line
    # type is either access-ip, access-md5pw or access-htauth
    # level is ro|rw
    # check is ip address, username or * for any ip or user
    # md5 format is username:md5hashof(username:password) 
    # to generate this use: echo -n "foo:bar" | md5
    # htauth is for http basic/digest auth, use username or * for any user
    # htauth requires externally (httpd) defined auth and require directive
    access-ip=ro:*
    access-ip=rw:127.0.0.1
    # guest / guest
    access-md5pw=ro:guest:d3c3b5cb55d3c6d0c6122eedccc3dcf3
    # admin / password
    access-md5pw=rw:admin:73eff6386ce2091b5ca702fc007e1da9
    access-htauth=ro:*
    access-htauth=rw:admin

If you use mixed readonly and readwrite access then then in order to authenticate
click on the lock sign on right side of the top status bar.

For enterprise users LDAP/Active Directory is supported. 
Refer to [mod_authnz_ldap](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/mod/mod_authnz_ldap.html) 
with basic / digest authentication. To allow a specific LDAP group or DN use
[Require ldap-group](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/mod/mod_authnz_ldap.html#reqgroup) 
or [Require ldap-dn](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/mod/mod_authnz_ldap.html#reqdn) 
and `access-htauth=:rw:*` in wfm.cfg.

## Copyrights and Credits
Copyright (c) 1994-2018 by Antoni Sawicki  
Copyright (c) 2018-2019 by Google LLC  
Copyright (c) 1996-2011 by Thomas Boutell and Boutell.Com, Inc.  
Copyright (c) 2002 by Aladdin Enterprises  
Copyright (c) 1999-2009 by Paul Johnston  
Copyright (c) 2010 by Yusuke Kamiyamane  
WFM implemented by [Antoni Sawicki](http://www.tenox.net/)  
[CGIC Library](https://www.boutell.com/cgic/) by Thomas Boutell  
Server Side RFC 1321 implementation by [L. Peter Deutsch](https://sourceforge.net/projects/libmd5-rfc/files/)  
Client Side RFC 1321 implementation by [Paul Johnston](http://pajhome.org.uk/crypt/md5/index.html)  
Icons by [Yusuke Kamiyamane](http://p.yusukekamiyamane.com/)  
URL Encoding routines by Fred Bulback  
Web browser testing by [BrowserStack](http://www.browserstack.com/)
